.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Richard Kettlewell
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
.\" USA
.\"
.TH disorder-normalize 8
.SH NAME
disorder-normalize \- DisOrder audio normalization process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disorder-normalize
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B disorder-normalize
is used by
.BR disorderd (8)
to convert audio data to a consistent encoding.  It is not intended to
be used by ordinary users.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config \fIPATH\fR, \fB-c \fIPATH
Set the configuration file.
.TP
.B --debug\fR, \fB-d
Enable debugging.
.TP
.B --syslog
Log to syslog.  This is the default if stderr is not a terminal.
.TP
.B --no-syslog
Do not log to syslog.  This is the default if stderr is a terminal.
.TP
.B --help\fR, \fB-h
Display a usage message.
.TP
.B --version\fR, \fB-V
Display version number.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR disorderd (8)
