.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Richard Kettlewell
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
.\" USA
.\"
.TH tkdisorder 1
.SH NAME
tkdisorder \- DisOrder jukebox client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tkdisorder
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tkdisorder
is a simple graphical client for DisOrder.  It is not really finished.
.PP
The main window is divided into two.  The top half contains the name
of the current track and a progress bar indicating how far through
playing it is.  It also contains three buttons:
.TP
.B Quit
Terminates tkdisorder.
.TP
.B Scratch
Terminates the current track.
.TP
.B Recent
Pops up a window listing recently played tracks, most recent at the
top.
.PP
The bottom half of the window lists the current queue, with the next
track to be played at the top.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help\fR, \fB-h
Display a usage message.
.TP
.B --version\fR, \fB-V
Display version number.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBdisorder\fR(1), \fBdisorder_config\fR(5)
.PP
"\fBpydoc disorder\fR" for the Python API documentation.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode:nroff
.\" fill-column:79
.\" End:
.\" arch-tag:yguAsuJM8a5kzQ+UqEnSKg
